---
layout: post
title:  "EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)"
date:   2017-10-16
---

Someone from AppSec gave a talk on this. Here are my notes.

## GDPR

Pros
* More control over your data
* More consistency over privacy expectations within the EU

Cons
* Some rules are not well defined
* Brexit causes uncertainty

## Personally Identifiable Information (PII)

It belongs to the data subject

Yes
* Name + Jobtitle
* Name + Zipcode
* Phone number
* Social Security number
* Company + Jobtitle (if its a relatively small startup, perhaps not if its a large company)

No
* Most jobtitles. For example, there are many people whose official job title is 'salesperson'.
* _Most_ jobtitles, not _all_ jobtitles. Example: There's only one POTUS at a time.

## Sensitive data

GDPR requires explicit consent of the individual to collect this

Anything that can cause a large body of people to hate you.
* Political affiliation
* Sexual orientation

## Definitions

* Data controller - determines means to process data
* Data processor - processes data

## Exemptions from GDPR

* Internet Service Providers
* Some other cases

## History

* EU SafeHabor: 1999 when the Internet exploded
* EU Privacy Shield: After Edward Snowden became known in 2013,
	regarding transfer of data from EU -> US
* Swiss SafeHabor: Also 2013, required as Switzerland is not part of the EU.
	Similar to EU Privacy Shield.
* Data Privacy Directive (DPD): 
	Guidelines for EU member stateson data transfer from US => EU.
	GDPR needed as DPD is pretty fragmented and inconsistent.
	If you are DPD compliant, you are almost GDPR compliant. 

## What the GDPR requires that DPD does not have

* Notice to employees about company privacy policy
* Data integrity - keep data for ONLY as long as reasonably needed
* Data transfer to 3rd parties - vendor due diligence on compliance required
* Access requests - "need" basis and able to explain why access was granted

## Penalties for violation

* Violation of GPDR policy: 20 million Euros or 4% of annual global turnover for a
* Security breach in your company: 10 million Euros. Less than above
	to conserve resources for mitigation? 

## Requirements for privacy notifications

* Concise, easy to understand
* Not something that needs Law School + Bar training to figure out
* If you make a product marketed to children, children (not just adults) must be able to understand the privacy notice

## Data Portability

* Right to be forgotten
* Reasonable exception: If you did something that got into the newspapers, Google / other companies are NOT required to delete it

## Security Program requirements

* Follow accepted industry practices
* More sensitive data is more protected
* Security breach - notification + mitigating actions withn 72 hours to Data Protection Authority (DPA) and data subjects

## Records

* Complaint resolution records
* Parental consent for children < 16
* Record fo processing actions

## How to file a violation complain

* Notify the FTC in the US

## How to avoid a complain

* Get an annual privacy verification
* Review data inventory and data flow annually
* Give employees privacy training
* Design for privacy in your product
* Review privacy certfication options when they are announced

## When to start worrying about the GDPR

* Start now
* Goes into effect from May 25, 2018 
* Not retroactive, but you should protect ALL your data now in case of a security breach


















