---
type: post
title: "Boosting"
date: 2018-06-08
---

Summarized from [here](https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2015/11/quick-introduction-boosting-algorithms-machine-learning/).

## What boosting does

Improve accuracy of prediction for ML algorithms,
by converting weak learners to strong learners.

For example, if you have a learner that classifies email into SPAM
and NOT-SPAM by checking for the following things:
1. If the email whether it has the word `viagra` in it, it is  SPAM
2. If the email has one image file in it, it is SPAM
3. If the email has the domain `google.com` in it, it is NOT SPAM.

These three rules are not individually suitable for determining whether an email is spam.
Thus, each rule is a _weak learner_.

To convert the weak learners into a strong learner, combine the
predictions of multiple weak learners, perhaps by taking the majority vote.
If Rules 1 and 2 vote for SPAM but Rule 3 votes for NOT SPAM,
then classify the email as SPAM.

In general, boostings works by
1. Build a model from training data
2. Build another model to correct errors from the first model
3. ...
4. The training set is predicted with a high accuracy / maximum number of models have been added


## Adaptive Boosting (AdaBoost)

Use to boost performance of decision trees on binary classification,
best used with weak learners (models that do slightly better than random chance).
AdaBoost is often used on decision trees with one level.

1. Start by weighing each instance in the training dataset the same.
2. Train a weak classifier on the training data with the weighted samples.
  Calculate the misclassification rate for the trained model.
  `error = (num_correctly_classified - num_training_instances)/ num_training_instances`.
3. Modify the model to use the weighting of the training instances,
  update the weights on each instace 
  to give more weight to incorrectly predicted instances
  and less to correctly predicted instances.
4. Make predictions by calculating the weighted average of the weak classifiers.
































