---
type: post
title: "Doing TransPRK"
date: 2019-01-01
---

I've had to wear glasses since I was eight, and my degree is pretty high.
High enough that I pretty much had to wear glasses all the time, only taking them off at night.
I tried contact lenses once, several years ago, but couldn't get them into my eyes because
I'm just that sensitive to foreign objects being stuck into me,
and ended up resigning myself to wearing glasses pretty much forever.
I did think about doing Lasik a few times,
but the combination of risk factors (the flap they cut 
in your cornea never heals and is always vulnerable to being dislodged)
and the thought that if I couldn't
even wear contact lenses, there was no way I could get my eyes cut up.

Until I heard about TransPRK. 
It's basically a variant of Lasik that reshapes your cornea without needing
to cut a flap in them, so it's considered safer than Lasik.
In Lasik, a flap in your corneas is cut and then the corneas are reshaped,
before the flap is replaced. This causes the risk of dislodgement 
of the flap as the wound never heals.
In TransPRK, the epithelium of your corneas are removed before your
corneas are reshaped. Your corneas then grow back after a few days.

The downside to doing TransPRK is a longer recovery time that Lasik
- patients need to take at least 5 days to recover, as compared
to Lasik patients who can pretty much do the surgery today and 
resume normal activities the next day.

In the end, I decided that I wanted to not wear glasses badly enough
to risk doing TransPRK. I checked that [ClearVision Clinic](http://clearvision.com.sg/)
had successfully performed TransPRK on multiple patients who were very sensitive
to touch in their eyes like me before deciding to go for it.
I also read up stories from other people who had done the surgury in the past
to know what to expect, such as [Aggy Low](http://www.aggylow.com/2017/08/my-safesight-transprk-epilasik-surgery.html) and [Manj Bahra](https://medium.com/@mangazard/my-2017-transprk-lasek-experience-part-one-why-i-chose-transprk-over-lasik-565852d59796).
Some of those patients with high degrees mentioned that the needed up to a month
to feel like they had fully healed, so I decided to do the surgury around the
Christmas season in 2018. I took 2.5 weeks of my personal leave,
and combined with the time between Christmas and New Year's when my company shuts down,
I was able to take almost an entire month off work,
so I felt like I had plenty of time to recover.

I returned from the US to Singapore where my parents live
(and ClearVision Clinic operates) on Friday December 7, 2018,
and went for a pre-surgery screening immediately.
Luckily I was approved for the surgery on Monday December 10.
So I had the weekend to catch up with family.

On Monday, I headed to the clinic at around 11am.
I went for a final round of checkups, and waited for my turn for the surgery,
which happened at 1pm. 
I was so scared that even the doctor said my eyeballs were moving around,
but there was no pain and in the end everything was fine 
(I even got to wear bandage contact lenses for the first and hopefully last time in my life!)
The surgery itself only took about 3 minutes per eye, and I was in and out within 15 minutes.
The staff there put some eyedrops for me, and then I took a taxi home.

So began the recovery process, which I'll save for a second post.

